# daschland-scripts

This repository contains all data for the creation of the example project Alice in DaSCHland.
To upload the project, please follow the instructions in the upload protocol down below.

## Local Setup

Before cloning the repo, you need to install [Git LFS](https://git-lfs.com/).
This is because this repo contains files that are too big to be stored regularly in Git.

```bash
brew install git-lfs
git lfs install
```

We use [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) to set up Python and the virtual environment.
Install uv with:

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Once you have cloned this repo, `cd` into it, and then get started with:

```bash
uv sync
```

This will select an appropriate Python interpreter
(or install it, if no suitable installation can be found).
Then it will create a virtual environment, and install the dependencies.

To execute the scripts, you'll also need [ExifTool](https://exiftool.org/):

```bash
brew install exiftool
```


## Project Structure

- `daschland_data.xml` The XML file containing the data for the project.
- `daschland_ontology` The ontology folder containing the Excel files used to create the JSON ontology file.
- `daschland.json` The JSON file containing the data model for the project.
- `data` The folder containing the project data.
  - `multimedia` The folder containing the multimedia data (video, audio, ...) for the project, in subfolders according to the project classes.
  - `spreadsheets` The folder containing the spreadsheet data for the project. Each resource class has a separate spreadsheet file.
  - `xml` The folder containing the XML data for the project.
- `nodegoat` The folder containing all data to create the mirror project on Nodegoat.
- `pyproject.toml` The Python project file containing all dependencies for the project.
- `src` The folder containing the Python scripts for the project. 
  - `excel2xml` The scripts to convert the spreadsheet data to XML, using the old module "dsp-tools excel2xml".
  - `helpers` The helper scripts containing custom functions.
  - `nodegoat` The scripts to create the mirror project data on Nodegoat.
  - `xmllib` The scripts to convert the XML data to JSON, using the new library "dsp-tools xmllib".
- `uv.lock` The lock file for the project, which is used to create a virtual environment for the project.


## Run the Python Scripts

The XML file used for the xmlupload can be generated by running `src/xmllib/main.py`.
Some log statements and infos will be printed to the console.
They are informational, and can be ignored.


## Upload Protocol

To upload data to a DSP-API server, use the [`dsp-tools`](https://pypi.org/project/dsp-tools/) command line tool.
It is installed in the virtual environment.
Please use the project admin account "CheshireCat" to upload data to the DSP-API server.


### Uploading Data Locally

```bash
dsp-tools create daschland.json
dsp-tools xmlupload -u cheshire.cat@dasch.swiss -p 'alice9548' daschland_data.xml
```

### Uploading Data to rdu-08 Test Server

```bash
dsp-tools create -s https://api.rdu-08.dasch.swiss -u root@example.com -p 'xxxx' daschland.json
dsp-tools xmlupload -s https://api.rdu-08.dasch.swiss -u cheshire.cat@dasch.swiss -p 'alice9548' daschland_data.xml
```
